So you and I just finished
the movies database portion here.
We looked at the exercises, we looked
at the answers, we looked at pgAdmin.
All good things.
We are now going to get
into query performance.
Which honestly is one of my
favorite parts this cuz it,
it's cool to see something that goes
really slow and then to do something and
then watch it go really fast.
That's a really rewarding cycle for me.
And so I am by no means a query
performance expert, but
I'm going to show you the very low-hanging
fruit of how to speed up a query.
You've already seen me use a couple
of times say explain analyze on some
of these, so I'm going to say
docker PS you can see here.
I would like to connect to this one
which is calling docker apps db1.
So if you're going to
continue using pgAdmin
just make sure you're using the correct
name to connect to your database.
When I say docker exec here instead
of having SQL cuz that's
what I was calling it,
you're gonna call it whatever
it says right there.
Which is probably not Postgres-apps,
it's probably whatever the name of
the folder is that you started
your docker-compose in,
which was probably SQL- apps is what
I'm guessing most of you are seeing.
It just has to be whatever
the name of your container is.
So now this will work for me.
If that's not working for you,
because I'm not gonna be using it anymore,
you can also just say docker kill blah,
docker ps.
You can also kill the other one as well,
docker kill blah.
Then you can say docker run,
this is the one that I called SQL.
So that's running again and
that can just say docker exec SQL.
Anyway, point being you have to call it
the correct thing whatever the thing is
hopefully, I showed you how to do that,
that is up to you.
You can ask if you're running pgAdmin,
you can continue running all
the queries in here as well.
That's totally fine.
But I'm going to stick
to the command line.
So here we are.
Okay.
So I want to look at two
different queries with you,
select star from movies,
to where name equals
Tron Legacy which I have
an abnormal love for
this movie it's not a good
movie I'm not asserting
at all the story is awful but
it's like it's one the music
you can't deny the Daft Punk
soundtrack is amazing.
And two just a beautiful movie.
That again.
Okay, if you see this
from time to time here,
either your container is having
a little blip or your container
could also not be done starting up yet
if you connect too fast to it.
Because what happens when this container
starts is it starts the container.
Then it runs a bunch of queries to
seed all of the data in it, and
then it's ready to query from and
if you do that too fast it's a problem.
Okay, anyway, enough about my weird
love of the movie Tron Legacy.
You can see here that when I query,
I said select star from movies where
name equals Tron Legacy, okay?
I'm gonna do a second query here,
select * from movies
where ID equals 21103,
which you can see here,
they are both getting exactly
the same movie, right?
So looking at these two queries here,
which I just put right there.
Which of these queries
is gonna perform better?
>> The second one.
>> The second one?
This one right here?
Why?
There's couple of reasons.
>> Yeah.
>> Name is like a filter versus ideas.
A key.
>> Yeah, that's a good way of putting it.
So when you do where name is Tron Legacy,
it doesn't know ahead of time that
there's only gonna be one Tron Legacy.
So it's actually going to
look at literally every row,
all 178,000 rows in our table looking for
Tron legacies.
ID is a primary key it knows that
there is exactly one, furthermore,
it's also indexed by default
because it is a primary key, so
it doesn't actually even
go through row by row.
It actually uses a separate
data structure called a B-tree,
as in a computer science
self-balancing tree to go and
find exactly the thing
that we're looking for.
Now, how would we ever know
that beyond just that, that?
Well, first of all,
if you look at movies, wow,
there's a lot of constraints on this.
But let's look at movies pkey,
you can see this as a primary key that
is using the B-tree based on the ID.
In other words, this has an index.
Right?
So if I say explain, so let's start from,
actually we can just add it
on the front of anything.
If I say explain on this,
You can see right there it uses
what's called an index scan.
Anytime that you see an index scan,
it means that you're doing a good thing,
right?
If the Postgres planner which is what
this is called if the planner is
selected to use an index that means you
chose a good index ahead of time or
you wrote a good query to use an index.
If we go back to here and
this one, and I say, explain,
You can see it uses
the dreaded sequential scan,
which it means it starts the top and
looks at every single row, row by row.
This You can see here,
based on the cost is widely
different than the other one.
The second number here 8.44
tells you the total time.
So this took 8.44 units,
we'll talk about the units in the second,
you'll just know that it's relative.
Just took 8.44 units to find
this movie those Tron movie.
This one took over 5000 units to find.
This is many magnitudes better
because I was able to use an index.
Yes, so
my computer is even running slow today.
So, that is the one thing
about this cost thing.
Your computer is measuring itself, so
I actually measured this a couple of days
ago, and I got better performance
a couple of days ago.
So my computer is just
running slower today.
So it's not an exact science.
It's just a computer measuring itself.
So, I'm gonna get different numbers on
you, I'm sure you're probably not seeing
5006 you're probably seeing
something else, right?
Okay, so
explain is the abbreviated output.
If you wanted the extended output,
you put analyze.
Explain analyze.
And you get a little bit more on here.
It'll give you actual times.
It'll tell you how many loops it
went through, what the filter was,
how many rows removed by the filter.
That's a pretty useful one to know.
You can see here that it
removed a lot of stuff, right?
So let's look at the one
where it's the id is.
Okay, this one uses an index scan.
It doesn't even have to remove rows,
right?
Because that's not really a concept and
knows that it's looking for
exactly one thing because
it's using an index.
Search for it.
So, let's type,
I'll talk about a few things here.
Lets talk about the cost.
So the cost here.
And I'm borrowing this from another blog
post I left a link to it if you want to
read it.
Cost units are anchored by default
to a single sequential page
read costing 1.0 units.
So one page read it considers
to be a thing, right?
It anchors it to that cost because
if that's gonna differ between
platforms, right?
My computer is running ARM, right?
Yours is running X86, right?
That might run faster on different
computing architectures or
faster on Windows, faster on Linux.
So it's done to that, you can compare
apples to apples on one computer.
We shouldn't be comparing from my computer
to your computer because it's gonna be
different.
So, it's a relative unit and it's meant to
just you can say this one runs faster than
this one on this computer that's really
all the point of the cost The second
number is the total cost that went from I
clicked enter to disk run to completion.
The first number is the setup.
So you'll notice on the sequential scan,
it has a setup cost of zero.
That makes sense because
it doesn't set anything up.
It just starts going, it picks
the first row and it just goes, right?
This does because using the correct
index involves accessing the tree and
then going through the tree and
finding the thing.
That's not free.
This is where it gets really confusing for
people that are using indexes.
Let's talk about like what an index
is before I get much more into it.
You can tell Postgres in advance I'm
going to query using this kind of shape,
this kind of pattern in advance.
What Postgres then goes and
does is it takes all these things.
It assembles a separate data structure
that is optimized for searching.
So if I say I'm going to
be searching a lot by name,
if that was something that was really
important to me in my application,
I can say, hey,
Postgres go create an index on name.
And the next time I try and
do a search like this,
it'll use the index instead of
using the just sequential scan.
And I can speed up this query by quite
a lot, which is pretty cool, right?
That's the entire idea of an index.
And he uses what's called B-trees,
which is a type of self-balancing tree.
Just to give you a little preview of what
that actually means, in my other course
the complete intro to computer science,
Which again is on front of masters.
I actually teach you how
to write one of these.
In this AVL tree lesson, basically,
it creates a tree like this,
where it can go find those
things really quickly, right?
So instead of having to look at literally
every record in the database, it
actually goes and finds it using a tree,
which is a logarithmic growing thing.
So you If you add another
million rows to the database,
that tree doesn't grow very much.
What I'm showing you here is
actually what's called an AVL tree,
which is a very simplified
version of what a B-tree is.
A B-tree is much more complicated, but it
ends up being much faster look things up.
Okay.
So that's what an index is.
There are other types of
indexes besides B-trees.
And we will look at those
here in just a moment.